README.md, before:

# floyd-rnn-tensorflow-master
Tensorflow based RNN implementation that generates (awful) Pink Floyd lyrics for Python. 

It features the Multi-Layer Recurrent Neural Network, as used by Sherjil Ozair's [word-rnn-tensorflow](https://github.com/hunkim/word-rnn-tensorflow)<sup>1</sup>. While the training script remains the same, the sampling has been modified to best-represent lyric semantics. 

<sup>1</sup>This in turn is mostly derivative of Andrej Karpathy's [char-rnn](https://github.com/karpathy/char-rnn).

## Requirements 

- [Tensorflow 1.0.0](http://www.tensorflow.org)

## Training Data 

The lyrics can be found in <i>data/tinyshakespeare/input.txt</i> and was parsed from Vagalume.com.br via the [vagalume-download-lyrics](https://github.com/paladini/vagalume-download-lyrics) project. The entire [Pink Floyd discography](https://www.vagalume.com.br/pink-floyd/) comes to 200+ songs. The lyrics in <i>input.txt</i> have been manually pruned to remove unwanted symbols/characters. The sole intent of its use is for understanding the generation of lyrics with an RNN, no copyright infringement intended. 

## Usage
To train the network with default parameters on the floyd lyric datafile, run:
```bash
python train.py
```
Training may take some time, but upon completion you may sample from the trained model: 
```bash
python sample.py
```

## Sample output

### A decent one
```
Slightly piper, stepping up - 
If I heard the rains. 
Will either hear the day trucks
Bottles on the lapel remember love.

Some little sand whisper
Packing shit now, saying don't.
Got so he never
Ice air - ooooh Maggie!
Love spoils the razor on,
Something my love at all it.

What away? A Fletcher. 
Most I've hold the sun -
With the pick the real
Going ons.

Another lifetime more do you shall?
Swan silent man, I
Show them an anything.
Eyes who was slip, of the
Tree surprise, petrified faces and needed a
Stone, don't love your time!
To my do to slied,
Looking of taken sound.
You're hello? Into the wall! With stormy
Hot machine gun, great!
S'il naked to will.
```

### A not-so-decent one
```
Can, combination, brighteyed
Ooh throng throng lee, falling town
Where we time out fits on freely,
Waking the long apprehension you're on
The river wondering bear
Used some gohills -
Waking without holds the loud
Pinky followed in all.

The colours with they
Rain midnight gentlemen, had wrong and
Hills off this want i hand
With when to follow the
Doors even i've a
Hopeful i'm dont get.

Too surprised suns in formation, the
Damp in me for
Is a way my
Faith to command at the east.

Boy, and let you feeling occasionally
On me, anybody up the time anybody
In the film night
Isn't in a dead day
With history, in come with
Babe speak your church make waters
```

You may tweak the parameters of <i>sample.py</i> and see how the lyrics shape up. The script also allocates words per line based on a probability distribution with assigned values. You are free to experiment with the RNN on the discography of other bands. 


About

This project was created by Sudharshan Suresh, but it sources almost completely from the open-source projects mentioned previously. You are free to contact me with any issue/query/suggestion at suddhus at gmail dot com.

Commit message:

Finished fantasy songs, edited readme

README.md, after:

# floyd-rnn-tensorflow-master
Tensorflow based RNN implementation that generates (awful) Pink Floyd lyrics for Python. 

It features the Multi-Layer Recurrent Neural Network, as used by Sherjil Ozair's [word-rnn-tensorflow](https://github.com/hunkim/word-rnn-tensorflow)<b><sup>1</sup></b>. While the training script remains the same, the sampling has been modified to best-represent lyric semantics. 

<b><sup>1</sup></b>This in turn is mostly derivative of Andrej Karpathy's [char-rnn](https://github.com/karpathy/char-rnn).

## Requirements 

- [Tensorflow 1.0.0](http://www.tensorflow.org)

## Training Data 

The lyrics can be found in <i>data/tinyshakespeare/input.txt</i> and was parsed from Vagalume.com.br via the [vagalume-download-lyrics](https://github.com/paladini/vagalume-download-lyrics) project. The entire [Pink Floyd discography](https://www.vagalume.com.br/pink-floyd/) comes to 200+ songs. The lyrics in <i>input.txt</i> have been manually pruned to remove unwanted symbols/characters. The sole intent of its use is for understanding the generation of lyrics with an RNN, no copyright infringement intended. 

## Usage
To train the network with default parameters on the floyd lyric datafile, run:
```bash
python train.py
```
Training may take some time, but upon completion you may sample from the trained model: 
```bash
python sample.py
```

## Sample output

Here's a few interested results, mildly formatted for the reader's pleasure. I've put together a [Stink Floyd Fantasy LP](SF_fantasy_lp.md), where I've carefully curated my favorite outputs. 

### A decent one
```
Slightly piper, stepping up - 
If I heard the rains. 
Will either hear the day trucks
Bottles on the lapel remember love.

Some little sand whisper
Packing shit now, saying don't.
Got so he never
Ice air - ooooh Maggie!
Love spoils the razor on,
Something my love at all it.

What away? A Fletcher. 
Most I've hold the sun -
With the pick the real
Going ons.

Another lifetime more do you shall?
Swan silent man, I
Show them an anything.
Eyes who was slip, of the
Tree surprise, petrified faces and needed a
Stone, don't love your time!
To my do to slied,
Looking of taken sound.
You're hello? Into the wall! With stormy
Hot machine gun, great!
S'il naked to will.
```

### A not-so-decent one
```
Can, combination, brighteyed
Ooh throng, throng Lee! Falling town,
Where we time out fits on freely.
Waking the long apprehension you're on
The river wondering bear. 
Used some gohills -
Waking without holds the loud
Pinky followed in all.

The colours with they
Rain, midnight gentlemen! Had wrong and
Hills off this want I hand.
With when to follow the
Doors even I've a
Hopeful I'm dont get.

Too surprised suns in formation, the
Damp in me for,
Is a way my
Faith to command at the east.

Boy, and let you feeling occasionally
On me, anybody up the time - anybody. 
In the film night,
Isn't in a dead day.
With history, in come with
Babe speak your church make waters!
```

You may tweak the parameters of <i>sample.py</i> and see how the lyrics shape up. The script also allocates words per line based on a probability distribution with assigned values. You are free to experiment with the RNN on the discography of other bands. 

## About

This project was created by Sudharshan Suresh, but it sources almost completely from the open-source projects mentioned previously. You are free to contact me with any issue/query/suggestion at suddhus at gmail dot com.
